+++
draft = true
author = "Isak Kvam"
title = "My writing desk"
date = "2025-02-24"
description = "Add a sentence here."
tags = [
    "writing",
    "office"]
obsidian_tags = [
    " #blogdraft"
    ]
+++

I'm looking through my desk where I work and do most of my writing — something I try to tidy about once a month as it becomes cluttered with scraps of notes written on index cards, receipts to log, and magazines, articles, and books I've been paging through.
I have a super-thin, silent travel keyboard that I use for my everyday typing, alongside a wireless Apple mouse, my Macbook on a slick computer stand, and a wide monitor to the left propped up on a copy of "What If We Get It Right?" by Ayana Elizabeth Johnson.
Beneath my laptop is a stack of small and large index cards and a Pilot G-2 black pen. Behind it is a steel water glass, an old Minnesota State Parks can koozie filled with pens and pencils, an orange pair of Nocs binoculars for watching robins, blue jays, and chickadees in the oak tree outside (and occasionally hawks, a pileated woodpecker, and eagles, when I'm lucky), plus an old GE radio tuned to MPR (for days when the internet is slow and streaming takes up too much bandwidth). There are scraps of receipts to file, old magazine copies of the Conservation Volunteer and Adventure Journal and Trails Mag, and a few sketched brainmaps of projects to do for work. A short zine about Solutions Journalism from Project Optimist from my meeting with Norah last summer. Plus, a few extra Field Notes that I just started using aside from my daily carry version--a post for another day.
There's a shelf underneath my desk, where I keep a BUNCH of books for easy access.
The stack to the right is mostly history: Robert Caro's series on LBJ and The Power Broker, along with Douglas Brinkley's conservation trilogy (The Wilderness Warrior, Rightful Heritage, and Silent Spring Revolution). I've also got Home Ground, a really cool reference book for writing outdoorsy scenes (what exactly is an arroyo? Or a draw? This book gives really succinct definitions of niche landscape terms).
The next stack is mostly writing books: On top is Writing Tools, which I've been reading one by one each day and weaving into my own writing. A quick rundown: Strunk and White's The Elements of Style, On Writing Well, The Art and Craft of Feature Writing, Writing to Learn, Wordcraft, Storycraft, The War of Art, Turning Pro, Caro's Working,Building a Storybrand, Smart Brevity, How to Write Fundraising Materials, Writing About Nature, Environmental and Nature Writing, and The Writer's Journey. I most highly recommend Storycraft, Writing Tools, and Elements of Style (though I haven't gotten around to On Writing Well yet!)
Then I have a stack of more fiction/non-fiction books, mostly picked up from Scout & Morgan Books in Cambridge and various Little Free Libraries (which is one of my favorite things to do on vacations): Fire Weather, Lonesome Dove, The Son, Rachel Carson's Sea Trilogy, Leopold's Sand County Almanac & Other Writings, Prairie Silence, Path of Light, Angle of Repose, Arctic Dreams, Coyote America, Fragment, and Let My People Go Surfing.
I've been working on-and-off researching my hometown's electrification history (I know this is incredibly niche), so I've got a small stack of history books from my dad: A History of Yellow Medicine County, Minnesota, 1872-1972; Granite Falls 1879-1979, and A Century of Light, 100 Years of Granite Falls Municipal Utility, 1891-1991.
I find it's helpful to be near books when I'm writing. Maybe I hope their proximity will permeate into my own writing, even though much of my writing is done in different places on different devices. My best writing, though, happens in short bursts or long, unstructured times with plenty of whims and tangents--where I can flip through books, steal snippets I like, and research a topic away from a screen.
To the left of the books, I've got a stack of legal pads, big and small, that hold ephemeral notes from meetings, online courses, and the like. I don't really reference these so much as have a hard time throwing a competely-filled-out legal pad into the trash. I'll probably throw them out once they get a bit too tall, but for now they make an excellent mess.
To my left, I have a dresser with a few go-tos on top: my 50's Remington Travel-Riter typewriter, the first one I got in early pandemic times. This is where I keep my writing mainstays: Garner's Modern American Usage Dictionary (every writer should have a usage dictionary), Roget's Thesaurus of English Words and Phrases (thanks Austin), Word Into Type (thanks Norene), and a Vocabulary Builder (fun to page through).
Tape to the wall behind my computer: a National Wildlife Refuge blue goose sign, a few Pearls Before Swine comics, a post-it of my USPS hours, a Boundary Waters sticker, a few illustrations Ray Troll made for a coffee company: a Grizzly Bear making a pourover and a human skull drinking from a coffee pot, and a typewritten post-it: If you're not giving it your best, why are you doing it at all?
My desk has a small drawer, which is mostly filled with filled-out and unfilled-out Field Notes. I started keeping one in my backpocket in 2019-ish, and the only rule is that there are no rules to what goes in or out of it. (I've learned that if I make rules about what goes in a journal, I don't journal). I recently ordered all the Birds & Trees of North America and the Heartland Field Notes, so I'm excited to crack those open. Then I've got  plenty of stickers, paper clips, headphones, typewritter ribbons, thumb drives, notecards, binder clips, and more index cards.
Then I've got a small charging station on the floor for mey drone, a small Rollo thermal printer for labelling business orders, an old macbook for fun computer projects, plus a nest of cables for my phone, watch, headphones, computers, and kindle. I've also got my new-to-me Smith Corona Galaxie typewriter in its box, which is my much-nicer typewriter that I've been trying to keep out of the sun so its plastic blue coloring doesn't fade.
